README.md, before:

# Mento Automation Tests

## Summary

### Test automation framework repo to execute described tests against mento-web and other possible projects

### Here you can find more detailed overview of [test automation](https://www.notion.so/mentolabs/Test-Automation-12da2148cc5c8010bae9cf8150e5c13f)

## Pre-requisites

- [node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) >= 18.20.0
- [npm](https://nodejs.org/en) >= 10.5.0

## Pre-conditions

1. Execute `npm install`.
2. Paste a seed phrase into the `SEED_PHRASE` and a `WALLET_PASSWORD` variables.
3. Execute `npm run build-synpress-cache`.

## Environment Variables

#### .env file creates automatically via "postinstall" on `npm install` command execution

| Variable                   | Example           | Description                                                                                                                  |
| -------------------------- | ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| \*ENV                      | `prod`            | required env, default `prod`                                                                                                 |
| \*SPECS_TYPE               | `web`             | required specs type to run. Can be: `all` or `web` or `api`                                                                  |
| SPEC_NAMES                 | `wallet,slippage` | specs names separated by comma which will be executed locally, if no or disabled will execute all specs, disabled by default |
| TEST_RETRY                 | `1`               | retries N times if test fails, disabled by default                                                                           |
| \*SEED_PHRASE              | `'seed phrase'`   | required seed phrase for connection of metamask wallet                                                                       |
| \*WALLET_PASSWORD          | `'password'`      | required password for connection of metamask wallet                                                                          |
| TEST_RUN_TIMEOUT           | `120_000`         | custom test run timeout, disabled by default                                                                                 |
| TEST_TIMEOUT               | `120_000`         | custom test timeout, disabled by default                                                                                     |
| LOG_LEVEL                  | `DEBUG`           | desired log level, disabled by default. Can be: ALL, TRACE, INFO, DEBUG                                                      |
| TESTOMAT_REPORT_GENERATION | `false`           | desired option to generate testomat test run report or not. Can be: true or false                                            |
| TESTOMATIO_TITLE           | `your own title`  | desired testomat test run report title to run locally.                                                                       |
| \*TESTOMAT_API_KEY         | `api key`         | testomat api key to run locally. Can be taken from GH actions secrets or lastPass note                                       |

## Local test/s execution by mods:

- _**headed**_ - with opening browser (command can be shortened to `npm t`)

`npm run test`

- _**ui**_ - with opening browser in specified app with all devtools, traces, and other playwright features

`npm run test:ui`

- _**debug**_ - with opening browser and specified debug app to pause/resume test

`npm run test:debug`

- _**headless**_ - without opening browser and other playwright features

`npm run test:headless`

## CI test/s execution by the "Specific Test Run" trigger:

1. Navigate to the [CI](https://github.com/mento-protocol/mento-automation-tests/actions)
2. Select the "Specific Test Run" workflow
3. Click on the "Run workflow" drop-down
4. Select a branch, write a spec name/s, and select specs type

Commit message:

Feat: Enabled alfajores swap tests and improved diff chains handling, test execution speed and env vars error handling (#70)
* Feat: Enabled alfajores swap tests

* Feat: Linter

* Feat: Improved setting chain, added verify-env tool, and updated README,

* Feat: Changed PR check to use mainnet

* Feat: Set verify env config for CI generally before test running, updated README, and naming

* Fix: Replaced beforeEach method for swap tests and simplified method [skip ci]

README.md, after:

# Mento Automation Tests

## Summary

### Test automation framework repo to execute described tests against mento-web and other possible projects

### Here you can find more detailed overview of [test automation](https://www.notion.so/mentolabs/Test-Automation-12da2148cc5c8010bae9cf8150e5c13f)

## Pre-requisites

- [node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) >= 18.20.0
- [npm](https://nodejs.org/en) >= 10.5.0

## Pre-conditions

1. Execute `npm install`.
2. Fill the `SEED_PHRASE`, and `WALLET_PASSWORD` variables.
3. Specify the `IS_MAINNET` variable (ensure you re-built synpress cache when changing a chain by this flag!).
4. Execute `npm run build-synpress-cache`.

## Environment Variables

#### .env file creates automatically via "postinstall" on `npm install` command execution

| Variable                   | Example           | Description                                                                                                                  |
| -------------------------- | ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| \*ENV                      | `prod`            | required env, default `prod`                                                                                                 |
| \*SPECS_TYPE               | `web`             | required specs type to run. Can be: `all` or `web` or `api`                                                                  |
| SPEC_NAMES                 | `wallet,slippage` | specs names separated by comma which will be executed locally, if no or disabled will execute all specs, disabled by default |
| TEST_RETRY                 | `1`               | retries N times if test fails, disabled by default                                                                           |
| \*SEED_PHRASE              | `'seed phrase'`   | required seed phrase for connection of metamask wallet                                                                       |
| \*WALLET_PASSWORD          | `'password'`      | required password for connection of metamask wallet                                                                          |
| \*IS_MAINNET               | `'true'`          | required flag to specify chain for test running                                                                              |
| TEST_RUN_TIMEOUT           | `120_000`         | custom test run timeout, disabled by default                                                                                 |
| TEST_TIMEOUT               | `120_000`         | custom test timeout, disabled by default                                                                                     |
| LOG_LEVEL                  | `DEBUG`           | desired log level, disabled by default. Can be: ALL, TRACE, INFO, DEBUG                                                      |
| TESTOMAT_REPORT_GENERATION | `false`           | desired option to generate testomat test run report or not. Can be: true or false                                            |
| TESTOMATIO_TITLE           | `your own title`  | desired testomat test run report title to run locally.                                                                       |
| \*TESTOMAT_API_KEY         | `api key`         | testomat api key to run locally. Can be taken from GH actions secrets or lastPass note                                       |

## Local test/s execution by mods:

- _**headed**_ - with opening browser (command can be shortened to `npm t`)

`npm run test`

- _**ui**_ - with opening browser in specified app with all devtools, traces, and other playwright features

`npm run test:ui`

- _**debug**_ - with opening browser and specified debug app to pause/resume test

`npm run test:debug`

- _**headless**_ - without opening browser and other playwright features

`npm run test:headless`

## CI test/s execution by the "Specific Test Run" trigger:

1. Navigate to the [CI](https://github.com/mento-protocol/mento-automation-tests/actions)
2. Select the "Specific Test Run" workflow
3. Click on the "Run workflow" drop-down
4. Select a branch, write a spec name/s, and select specs type
